challenges/blogs/insertionSort/BLOG.md, before:

# Insertion Sort

Insertion sort is a sorting algorithm for arrays which is based off of comparing an array value to the one prior. Insertion sort takes in an array of integers, and step by step sorts them into ascending order. 

This function uses a for loop, with a while loop inside. The for loop starts at i=1, up to i < arr.length. Inside of the for loop, j=i-1, and a temp variable is set to the arr[i]. Then, while j is a positive integer and the temp < arr[j] reassign the value in the array to the value prior, arr[j+1] becomes arr[j], and j=j-1. The loop will run until the temp value is no longer less than the value of arr[j] or until j is less than 0.

The sample array is [8,4,23,42,16,15].

Step 1: On the first iteration, i=1, j=0, and temp=array[1]=4. Goes into the while loop, and the conditional evaluates to true, so array[1] becomes 8 (4 and 8 swap places), j=-1 and breaks out of the loop. The array is [4,8,23,42,16,15].

Step 2: On the second iteration, i=2, j=1, and temp=array[2]=23. Goes into the while loop, and the conditional evaluates to false, so nothing changes. The array is [4,8,23,42,16,15].

Step 3: On the third iteration, i=3, j=2, and temp=array[3]=42. Goes into the while loop, and the conditional evaluates to false, so nothing changes. The array is [4,8,23,42,16,15].

Step 4: On the fourth iteration, i=4, j=3, and temp=array[4]=16. Goes into the while loop, and the conditional evalues to true, so array[4] becomes 42 (42 and 16 swap places), j=2 and the loop repeats (the array is [4,8,23,16,42,15]) The conditional evaluates to true, so array[3] becomes 23 (23 and 16 swap places), j=1 and the loop repeats (the array is [4,8,16,23,42,15]). The conditional evaluates to false and it breaks out of the loop. The array is [4,8,16,23,42,15].

Step 5: On the fifth iteration, i=5, j=4, and temp=array[5]=15. Goes into the while loop, and the conditional evaluates to true, so array[5] becomes 42 (42 and 15 swap places), j=3 and the loop repeats (the array is [4,8,16,23,15,42]). The conditional evaluates to true so array[4] becomes 23 (23 and 15 swap places), j=2 and the loop repeats (the array is [4,8,16,15,23,42]). The conditional evaluates to true, so array [3] becomes 16 (16 and 15 swap places), j=1 and the loop repeats (the array is [4,8,15,16,23,42]). The conditional evaluates to false and it breaks out of the loop. The array is [4,8,15,16,23,42].

## Visual

![image1](assets/insertion1.png)
![image1](assets/insertion2.png)

Commit message:

updated main table of contents, added link to code on blog

challenges/blogs/insertionSort/BLOG.md, after:

# Insertion Sort

Insertion sort is a sorting algorithm for arrays which is based off of comparing an array value to the one prior. Insertion sort takes in an array of integers, and step by step sorts them into ascending order.

This function uses a for loop, with a while loop inside. The for loop starts at i=1, up to i < arr.length. Inside of the for loop, j=i-1, and a temp variable is set to the arr[i]. Then, while j is a positive integer and the temp < arr[j] reassign the value in the array to the value prior, arr[j+1] becomes arr[j], and j=j-1. The loop will run until the temp value is no longer less than the value of arr[j] or until j is less than 0.

## Steps

The sample array is [8,4,23,42,16,15].

Step 1: On the first iteration, i=1, j=0, and temp=array[1]=4. Goes into the while loop, and the conditional evaluates to true, so array[1] becomes 8 (4 and 8 swap places), j=-1 and breaks out of the loop. The array is [4,8,23,42,16,15].

Step 2: On the second iteration, i=2, j=1, and temp=array[2]=23. Goes into the while loop, and the conditional evaluates to false, so nothing changes. The array is [4,8,23,42,16,15].

Step 3: On the third iteration, i=3, j=2, and temp=array[3]=42. Goes into the while loop, and the conditional evaluates to false, so nothing changes. The array is [4,8,23,42,16,15].

Step 4: On the fourth iteration, i=4, j=3, and temp=array[4]=16. Goes into the while loop, and the conditional evalues to true, so array[4] becomes 42 (42 and 16 swap places), j=2 and the loop repeats (the array is [4,8,23,16,42,15]) The conditional evaluates to true, so array[3] becomes 23 (23 and 16 swap places), j=1 and the loop repeats (the array is [4,8,16,23,42,15]). The conditional evaluates to false and it breaks out of the loop. The array is [4,8,16,23,42,15].

Step 5: On the fifth iteration, i=5, j=4, and temp=array[5]=15. Goes into the while loop, and the conditional evaluates to true, so array[5] becomes 42 (42 and 15 swap places), j=3 and the loop repeats (the array is [4,8,16,23,15,42]). The conditional evaluates to true so array[4] becomes 23 (23 and 15 swap places), j=2 and the loop repeats (the array is [4,8,16,15,23,42]). The conditional evaluates to true, so array [3] becomes 16 (16 and 15 swap places), j=1 and the loop repeats (the array is [4,8,15,16,23,42]). The conditional evaluates to false and it breaks out of the loop. The array is [4,8,15,16,23,42].

## Visual

![image1](assets/insertion1.png)
![image1](assets/insertion2.png)

## Code

Link to code [here](insertionSort.js)
